# IMS-Bearing-Fault-Diagnosis

In this project, we use a machine-learning algorithm to predict the faults in a bearing. This first section will see the data preprocessing part and how we can read the data from the given text file and do the feature extraction from the obtained data to get meaningful features. In this case, we have extracted time domain features from the given acceleration data and saved them in a CSV file. In the later part of this series, we will use the preprocessed data to train machine learning algorithms that will be able to predict the faults in a Bearing. Data is visualized and Fault-labels are created to convert this problem as a classification task. Total 4 fault categories are created i.e. Normal, Outer Race Fault, Inner Race Fault and Rolling Element Fault. Dimensionality reduction technique, more specifically PCA is used to visualize and better understand the data in a 2D and 3D space. Random forests is a supervised learning algorithm. It can be used both for classification and regression. It is also the most flexible and easy to use the algorithm. A forest is comprised of trees. It is said that the more trees it has, the more robust a forest is. Random forest creates decision trees on randomly selected data samples, gets a prediction from each tree and selects the best solution by means of voting. It also provides a pretty good indicator of the feature importance.

Link to [datset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/vinayak123tyagi/bearing-dataset)
